Hello friends, I'm Rick Warren, and welcome to Spurgeon's Sermons.
This is the official podcast brought to you by Premier and Spurgeon's College.
You know the teachings of Charles Spurgeon have had a personal impact on my life in a profound way, and I'm confident they'll do the same for you.
So get ready to be challenged, equipped, and guided by Charles Spurgeon, who is universally regarded as the greatest English preacher in the history of the church.
The heroic
in Christianity, a sermon by Charles Spurgeon, part three.
For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye?
For sinners also love those that love them.
And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye?
For sinners also do even the same.
And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye?
for sinners also lend to sinners to receive as much again.
Luke's Gospel, chapter 6, verses 32 to 34.
Followers of Jesus are called upon to do good to those who have done them harm.
You know the old saying, evil for good is devil-like, evil for evil is beast-like, good for good is man-like,
Good for evil is God-like.
Rise you to that God-like point.
If a man has taken the bread out of your mouth, seize the first opportunity to help him to a livelihood.
If he has bespattered you, be ready to forgive him.
But say not a word against him.
Watch for a time when, by great kindness, you may heap coals of fire on his head.
Hard teaching says one, I know it is, and harder doing, but it is blessed doing.
It is sweet to render good for ill.
There is a self-conquest about it which ennobles the soul more than the conquest of an empire.
There is a getting near to Christ in such actions that hath about it more of heaven than all beside.
that patient persevering rendering of benefits for injuries, returning a favor for enmity, gives us fellowship with him who, when we were enemies, laid down his life for us.
O taste this sweet grace of forgiveness, and see if it be not good.
If you have never known Christian joy, you shall know it then.
It is a high virtue, nevertheless, to this we must come if we are to be the followers of Christ.
Again, you note in the 34th verse that mention is made of helping others in a neighborly way, with the expectation of their returning the friendly deed, if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye.
is often rendered in the expectation that if ever we are in the same need, we shall only need to ask and receive like aid.
I lend you an axe, and you will one day lend me a sore.
You borrow my pale, and you will lend me your flat iron.
Enable a sort of barter which goes on all around and ought to go on.
But there is nothing very wonderful in it.
For after all, it is a sort of laying-by-in store, making your neighbor your banker for a while.
I help you, and you help me, a very proper thing to do, and the more of such brotherly and neighborly cooperation, the better.
But still, there is nothing so very virtuous in it.
What thank have you, for sinners also lend to sinners to receive as much again?
You as a Christian,
are to rise to something higher than this.
Namely to be ready to help without the expectation of being helped again.
Ready to aid those who you are certain could not help you, who are too poor ever to come to your rescue.
I am ready to help those who would not help you if they could, who may even return your kindness with words of falsehood and acts of unkindness.
Can you rise to this?
For this is to be a Christian.
This is to be like your heavenly Father, who sends his reign upon the just and upon the unjust, who causes his son to shine upon the field of the brute, as well as upon the garden of the liberal, who gives and gives and gives and receives nothing in return.
It is the glory of God
that He is too great, too full, too glorious to be dependent upon us, an ever-flowing fountain pouring forth incalculable torrents of infinite blessing upon the sons of men.
After our measure, we are to be the same.
We are to aspire to the higher happiness of which our Lord said, it is more blessed to give than to receive.
Here is the dignity, the heavenliness of happiness, not to be receiving from others, but to be freely distributing to them.
May God help us to imitate our God in doing good, hoping for nothing again.
Thus, brethren, I think I have shown you that there are certain good things in the world which nevertheless do not reach to the standard of Christian virtue.
this holds good in all religious actions.
You are known to be a religious man, so were a great many who have turned out to be rogues.
You are a deacon or other church officer.
Yes, so were certain bank directors, who were none the more honest for that.
But you are a preacher, yes, and so was Judas, who hanged himself, and so went to his own place.
Religious acts count for nothing unless there is a true heart at the back of them.
These things ought we to have done, but if we leave hard work undone, nothing is done.
Sinners also perform their religious acts, and besides these, some of them exhibit many external virtues, and yet they manifestly fail to approach the standard of Christian virtue.
The road is the same, and men and women may travel in it apparently in the same direction, and yet they may be journeying with totally different motives.
The first may be on the king's business.
The next may be a footpad.
And the third and escaped convict running from justice.
The same thing may be done by a hundred different people and apparently done in the self-same way.
and yet only one of them may be doing it in God's way and doing it with the sincere motive of honoring and glorifying God.
The 99, though studiously aiming to make the outward action correct, may nevertheless fail as to acceptance with God because their motive and spirit are altogether wrong.
Oh, it shames me when I sit down and look over my life
and inquire, is this a life a Christian ought to live?
Does not the same question arise in your minds?
Do you not feel in many points that unconverted people have excelled you?
Do you not know some persons who are no Christians who are nevertheless more patient than you in the endurance of pain?
Do you not know unbelievers who are generous to a high degree?
and show much of self-sacrifice in helping their poor neighbors.
Do you not know men whose devotion to science is greater than your devotion to Christ?
Are there not within your knowledge persons who have loved their country better than you have loved your Lord?
Do not these thoughts provoke you to something better?
They make me blush and cause my heart to weep.
What manner of person ought I to be?
When those who do not profess to know the mysteries of everlasting love rise to such courage in battle, such endurance in pushing overseas of ice.
What ought I to become when my Lord calls me to be His disciple indeed?
Where are the fruits of my discipleship?
What am I doing to bring Him honor?
If even a text like this staggers me, and I say it is a hard lesson, where, where must I be in the sight of God who sees all my failures?
Secondly, dear friends, I want you to notice that Christian virtue is in many respects extraordinary and might be called heroic.
To illustrate this, I will confine myself to the gospel according to Luke.
In the passage that we have been reading, we have evidently a form of virtue which is quite out of the ordinary range of men's thoughts.
It concerns love.
Love your enemies.
Do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you.
In the point of love, kindness, consideration for men's needs, and desire to do good.
The Christian life is to rise above every other till it becomes sublime.
Heath and moralists recommended kindness, but they did not suggest it's being lavished upon enemies.
I have been somewhat amused by the caution of Cicero.
He says, kindness must not be shown to a youth, nor to an old man, not to the aged.
because he is likely to die before he can have an occasion to repay you the benefit, and not to the young man, for he is sure to forget it.
Those of us who are middle-aged may value the orator's generosity as we like, but we may reflect that he only recommends its exercise towards us because we are likely to be good debtors and payback
what we receive, perhaps with interest.
That gentle laugh which ripples over the congregation is the best refutation of such bear-faced selfishness.
Our Lord bids us seek no reward from men and women, and He assures us that a greater reward will come.
We shall by shunning it secure it.
We shall find a reward in being unrewarded.
see how our Lord puts it.
When thou makeest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors, lest they also bid thee again, and a recompense be made thee.
But when thou makeest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, and the blind, and thou shalt be blessed.
for they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just."
Next, read Luke's Gospel, chapter 9, verses 54 and 55.
And you will see that the Christian is to rise above human passion in the matter of gentleness.
James and John, when Christ was not received by the Samaritan villagers, said,
Wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them?
But Jesus rebuked them and said, You know not what manner of spirit ye are of.
And they went to another village.
A Christian should be ready to give way he should be quiet, peaceable, gentle.
If in trying to do good he wishes to bless certain people and they refuse to hear him,
Let him not grow indignant and denounce the offenders.
But let him change the scene and carry his message to those who perhaps are hungering for it.
He may go round again very shortly to those who repulsed him and find them in a better mind.
Be gentle, brother.
Soft words are hard to answer.
They refused you at first.
Try them again.
At any rate, be not provoked, for then they will have conquered you.
Christians ought to be the gentlest beings under heaven.
They are sent forth as lambs among wolves, and they are called to be harmless as doves.
Such meekness will astonish and amaze their adversaries and crown the religion of Jesus with honor.
Thank you for listening, friends.
This podcast was brought to you by Premier in association with Spurgeon's College.
For more Christian podcasts, sermons and music, head back to the website premier dot plus and sign in for free.